# Rumpke Residntial Recycling
## Recycling at Home Just Got Easier
The average American generates nearly one ton of trash a year, creating serious problems if it all goes into the landfill.

Identifying recyclables and committing to household recycling practices goes a long way in reducing waste. When recyclable items are thrown away with other solid waste, they take up valuable space at landfills. However, when recyclable items are placed in recycling bins they are sent to a Material Recovery Facility (MRF) where they are separated and transported to end markets to be turned into something new. Recycling certain materials offers benefits to the environment by conserving natural resources, reducing pollution, and saving energy.

Disposing of recyclables also represents a significant duplication of efforts. When glass, plastic, paper, and metal are thrown away as trash instead of the recycling bin, those items must be made again from virgin materials into new products. The added efforts put a strain on manufacturing, ultimately leaving fewer resources for other purposes.

Rumpke has made significant investments in recycling technology to make residential recycling easy and convenient for you. We offer curbside recycling and public recycling drop boxes throughout our service regions.

## The Benefits of Single Stream Recycling

Rumpke’s single stream recycling program allows residential recyclables to be mixed together and sorted later at our state of the art recycling facilities.

This means that homeowners don’t have to sort recyclables, as required by dual stream recycling programs.

Single stream programs focus on all recyclable materials generated by residents–glass recycling, plastic recycling, and more—not just individual pre-sorted materials. This comprehensive approach helps divert the greatest volume of recyclable materials from landfills.

With single stream recycling, homeowners aren’t burdened with the job of separating or sorting their recyclables. Ultimately, this convenience means more people participate, leading to an overall reduction in waste.

## Acceptable Items for Rumpke Recycling

Rumpke Recycling offers residential customers a convenient, comprehensive recycling program to enhance the recycling effort and reduce the amount of material sent to the landfill.

While the full list of acceptable materials may vary slightly in some locations, residents can typically recycle the following:

* Glass Bottles & Jars (all colors)
* Metal Cans: Aluminum cans, steel cans and lids, empty aerosol cans with the lids and tips removed.
* Plastic Bottles (empty, crush, reattach lid): Bottles and jugs that have a small mouth and wider base, such as milk jugs, soda bottles, laundry detergent bottles, water bottles, shampoo bottles and contact solution bottles
* Plastic Tubs: Containers for butter, sour cream, cottage cheese, yogurt, Jello and fruit slices would fall into the tub category. Lids should be reattached prior to recycling
Plastic Cups* (remove/discard straw, reattach lid): Fast food beverage cups
* Paper: newspaper, magazines, cardboard, mixed office paper and envelopes, paperboard (cereal boxes), pizza boxes free of food debris and grease, telephone books and catalogs
* Paper Cups (remove/discard lids, straws and stoppers): Fast food beverage cups, coffee cups, Dixie cups
* Cartons: food and beverage cartons, such as milk, juice, soup, wine, broth and other cartons.

## NOT for Rumpke Recycling

No plastic bags, cassette tapes, bed sheets, hangers, metal chains, garden hoses, batteries, needles, syringes, electronics, polystyrene foam, buckets, car parts, food, yard waste, light bulbs, drinking glasses, ceramics, pots, pans, and scrap metal.

